Vernon Wolfe is a man who is here to change the world,
and he has repeatedly put his money
and time where his mouth is.
His work helped tranform the Soviet Union
from the Cold War culture to a peace time culture.
He stands beside Palestinians and Israelis and helps
them come face to face,
and transform their hatred of one another
into respect and even love.
Meanwhile he helps the rest of us
find our true, fullest potential
from within our multidimensional mind and spirit.
One of the grandfathers of science
and consciousness, with a background in physics,
religious studies, and developmental therapy,
Vernon has the countenance of Santa Claus.
With a twinkle in his eye he strips
away our illusions and introduces us
to ourselves.
Vern, you have become known as in essence
a guru of problem solving
on a very grand scale,
all the way from individuals to governments,
and this could not have been
an obvious sort of path that
took you in this direction.
Can you just tell us a little bit about
your background hop scotching though
your original studies that led you to the next,
to the next, and it'll be obvious in about
two sentences how you got to where
you are right now.
As long as I can clarify that guru
means G-U-R-
U
U,
that's right.
I can go along.
That's right.
I began
by taking physics,
the hardest classes that I could find
in university, because I wanted to
study premed and the basis of reality.
That was kind of my quest.
I taught science a couple years,
and then I discovered that teaching science
didn't necessarily make that much difference in a person's
life, and I knew there was something more.
I went into education,
and then I went into, well,
I guess I did the science and the education
at the same time.
Taught science, and then I went into
religious education,
thought well maybe I can do this out of religion.
Starting from the physical realities
into the spiritual realities.
And that was a lot of fun,
and I worked my way through into teaching
the honors classes in science and religion
in Bringenam University,
and I did that for awhile, and then I got into
consciousness, and I became aware that
as people developed into enlightenment,
and into different phases of their
own spiritual development, there was some
kind of order going on, and I got interested in that,
so I took my my PhD in developmental psychology,
and then I opened up with, I became a marriage
and family therapist and opened up a clinic,
and then I started looking around for things to do
with this, because I had a good therapy practice,
and I was applying some of the things from quantum physics
and developmental psychology together into the school
of consciousness.
And this was at a really early stage in the
game where not a lot of people were talking about the
words physics and consciousness.
It was unheard of,
it was like 40 years ago, so it's like,
there were some people talking about it,
but almost nobody had done anything about it.
They didn't know how to apply
to an all new theory, but because of my background
in physics I understood quantum physics.
When you started putting consciousness
and physics together there weren't a lot of
guidebooks back in that time as we just mentioned.
Did you have some mentors who had already
fused the world of science and consciousness,
maybe from prior times,
prior decades?
Actually, no.
To be truthful with you, no.
David Boem probably comes closest to that,
and maybe David Pete, because they started doing things
that were about science and consciousness,
and I knew them both, and David Pete
wrote the introduction
to my first book on holodynamics,
and we were together and had lots of conversations,
but I have friends.
I had a think tank who was made up of engineers
and physicists and quantum physicists,
and I was like the consciousness end of things,
so I began to see what would apply.
I took some of the premises of quantum physics,
like here's a few.
One is that everything is connected.
Everything is driven by potential, that's another.
Since everything is connected, and everything
is driven by potential, you had to learn
well how can they be connected and how can they
be driven,
and then I discovered that there are all these dimensions
to reality.
But back then, that wasn't necessarily known
at least in the body of science
that there were 10, 11 plus dimensions was there?
No, but we knew that they were there.
Paul Tonsen come along and made this great theory
at Cambridge about
there being, he calls them P brains.
I think it's a great, great way to call that.
But it doesn't mean
P-E-A-B-R-A-I-N?
No, no
Can you explain it?
P means the number,
so P is a number, so it goes like from
one to say if you believe there's only 10,
it goes from one til 10,
but if there's more then you can add more,
and then there's 10 that we can measure for sure,
and we know there's others,
and then brains,
B-R-A-N-E-S,
stands for the
number of dimensions.
It really stands for dimensions, so P
P brain
The number of dimensions
So what were you saying about our P brain?
If you're only using a forebrain world,
you know depth and you know
width and you know height.
That's three, and you can see motion,
so you know there's four dimensions you
can see right there.
This is called our space time dimension.
That takes care of four of them,
so it looks like we're about six
to however many shy of our true potential,
and our functioning.
Is that where you come in?
Exactly, because when you understand
what the next, just the next dimension,
if you just take one more dimension
then you can see all kinds of things that you can't
see unless you're understanding that dimension,
and when you take at least 10
you can solve every problem we have,
and it's easy.
We're going to get to that in a moment
and talk about where you went with some of this,
because it's a fascinating journey,
but I just have to ask you this.
You were a young man
when you started seeing the link between
physics and consciousness
a path through religion,
how did this come about in your own head,
because it was
they say there is nothing new under the sun,
but it was original thought.
You didn't have mentors.
Well I put a lot of things together,
so what I did, I have a background of physics,
so I used all the physics and the chemistry,
and I had a background in premed,
so it's like I used the biology
and then it was my reading habits
that were, because I love to read, and I
can read quite rapidly and understand
what I, because I have the basis for it,
and then I got into all the religion
and the philosophies
and took degrees in them so that I would have them,
and then studied and taught world religions
and comparative religions,
and then science and religion,
and it became, I was able to gather.
My passion was more for how does consciousness emerge?
What's the pattern of how we get more conscious,
more aware, more enlightened,
and so it just became a kind of passion
so I started making charts, and so
Ah, connecting the dots.
You are one of those that connected the dots
early on.
Right.
I took degrees in these different,
so I took the educators,
my educational thing background of dully
and all the rest of the educators,
and what they were really saying
is how does a student learn?
And they had a lot to say about that,
but when I got into developmental psychology,
people like Piaget and Kolberg,
and these people spent their whole lives
just looking at how people grow and develop,
and so they had these patterns.
To call a developmentalist and all the philosophers,
and all the educators, and all the science bases,
and applied it in the framework
of a quantum framework,
and one night I had a dream.
I had researchers working full time to
just bring me information, so I was reading
like five thick books and a least a hundred
articles every week,
and going through everything known
and charting out what the dots were
so they could be connected,
and one night I had a dream,
and in this dream I saw a black box,
and it was Skinner's black box,
and Skinner's intention was that what goes in
and what comes out, that's the only thing important.
You'll never know what happened in between.
And in this dream, just almost
out of just pure, pure curiosity
I peeled off the covering on the black box.
What did you see?
I saw this magnificent topology of consciousness,
and it included everything I had been studying.
Did that become holodynamics?
It was one whole dynamic,
and so it became holodynamics,
because it showed how all the developmental theorists
whether it's in science or biology
or sociology or psychology or
whatever field or any philosophy,
they all fit within this matrix,
and there were six major sections in the mind model,
and then there was a segment of it
that came from one side to the other
that was for family belief systems,
and here I am a family therapist
that made a lot of sense to me,
but then there's another one that overlapped that was
cultural belief systems,
and I'm thinking what is all this?
And then there's a line that goes between it,
cuts through everything,
and it's called the holodynamic plane,
and this voice said to me, the game
in the brain is mainly on the plane,
and I'm going what does that mean?
For two months I listened to this box
all day long, and it showed me how
everything integrated.
It was an integrative experience.
Unbelievable.
It's a topology,
mathematical topology, and you know,
you can take a topology of anything,
like a jet.
You wanna see how to work,
so you put it in a little wind tunnel,
and then you can make a topology of it
and you can change the shape of it,
and it'll show you what it will be like
if it was this shape or that shape,
but it's always a jet, and so it was
that human consciousness became for me
a model, a topology,
and I call it the mind model.
And it was purely in essence,
you had to have had the background,
you had to of
put the pieces together
I had to have all the dots.
And the dots already,
but for it to be downloaded comes from the
exact fields that you talk about in
all your work, accessing these higher potentials
within each one of us,
and you're accessing that potential in you at that time.
Can we kind of hop scotch forward a bit
as to what happened when you started working.
I really love the stories about your work
in the prison systems and also
working in the mental hospitals
and what you were able to do with the patients there.
Can you talk a little bit about those days?
Part of the model showed that there's
a critical choice path that people can make
and it has different dimensions,
but one of the dimensions is physical
and the next ones personal,
and then interpersonal,
and then social,
and then into the living principles,
which most people don't know about,
but everybody knows about things like faith and
love and things, but they don't realize that those
are real informational systems.
They're patterns inside of us,
and then I got into the universal, the great
enlightened minds, but when I started working
with my patients in the center
I found out all you had to do was teach in this
and just like that they could come out of their problems.
And these were people that had pretty
severe problems
Absolutely.
And had been committed into
the facility,
Not at first, but then what happened is
the ones that found out,
they started saying, well what can we do to use this,
and they started picking projects,
so one of the projects we picked was like drug abuse
and over half the kids in the high schools were on drugs
so we said well why don't we do something about that?
A year and a half later we had wiped
out the drug problem in six counties.
You couldn't even push illegal drugs anymore.
If you tried, the kids would look
at you and say, that does have a color?
And you think, well what's that?
Well that's the fifth dimension.
They would just go into the fifth dimension,
and the crime sindecents and
the people who push drugs have absolutely
no defense against that,
because they have no understanding of how
what's really going on.
They're just trying to make money
or doing whatever they're doing,
and they have no idea
what's really driving them
nor how to transform it.
The kids who used to be on drugs
cleaned up the problem in six cities.
We took that and said, well now what do we do?
Because we kind of worked our way out of a job,
so we took another project,
and that was the state mental hospital.
What we did is we took the families
who had Virginia, Sertier,
and Carl Whitegar, and some of these great
therapists called the Identified Patient,
so they're in the mental hospital yes,
so we taught the families
how to do this,
how to transform
the information systems inside themselves holographically.
We're using a holographic dimension.
Well before you know it, like 80% or more,
it was more than 80% of the mental hospitals out on
the streets with their families.
They're all healthy.
They're all
they've all no longer have any of the symptoms.
You're out of work again.
Well actually,
Just teasing.
They kicked us out of work,
because the governor called and says
bern, stop what you're doing.
No, why?
We have empty beds in this place.
That's right.
We're paid by the bed.
You're killing the hospital.
Well let it die.
No, you can't do that because
we have no alternative.
Well alright I'll slow down.
No, you have to stop,
because, anyway
that's a whole story.
News like this doesn't stay quiet.
No, but the psychiatrist totally polarized
against what we were doing.
Isn't that amazing.
It's amazing, so I've
written a special book called
the Therapy Manifesto,
and its like here's 95 things
that you have to know if you claim to
be a psychiatrist or anybody in the mental health industry.
Who has this been embraced by?
Well I haven't published it yet.
Oh, I thought you
said you were
I was doing the editing.
I thought you said it was already out.
It's written, but I haven't published it yet.
Yeah, I was gonna say
I didn't see that
I'm right in the middle
of a major publishing process.
Oh, okay.
Anyway, so I got 10 books coming out,
and that's one of them,
and I wrote it because of this,
because they need to know.
Yes, so it would appear,
and then at what point did this sort of
move you onto the
justice system and working in mental institutions.
The next project was we had these people come in
who were totally tragically,
just cataclismically shut down because
of things that had happened in their family,
like one of them had her daughter
brutally murdered by her wonderful
son in law, and nobody could figure out how come,
and he's now in maximum security,
so we showed her and the daughter
whose married to the son now in prison,
or son in law,
and we showed the daughter and the mother
how to do this.
They went to the prison.
They had this tremendous experience,
took awhile, because there was so much
suspicion, but they learned how to do it,
and they transformed that young man,
found out exactly what happened in him,
transformed all the information systems.
They have a love now, and he teaches
others in maximum security prison how to do that.
I could tell you dozens of stories like that,
amazing, remarkable recovery,
and that's in the toughest, hardest
harshest environment we have.
So it became kind of like,
well is there anything that can't be solved?
And we'll get to this a little bit later,
because I wanna continue hop scotching
through some of the other work that you've done
and to these you've worked with,
but here we're talking about a subject
as complex as quantum physics and multi dimensions
and hyper space,
and holographic universe.
Oh we haven't talked about hyper space yet.
How can you
That's another dimension.
But I'm going to ask you,
before this is over is what you just said,
how can you make this so incredibly accessible to people?
This must be where the magic
of your work comes in.
Because it's already in every person.
It's nothing magical about it.
It seems magical, but it's only because
every person is already magical.
They have a dimension inside of them,
once they access what we call the hyper spatial
dimension, that's what people like Roger Penrose
and Stuart Hamrock
and the science of consciousness people
are calling that dimension,
but it's a measurable dimension.
You can see it's effects and a 90
something percent of reality is in that dimension,
and you can see it in everything from gravity to everything,
and then you can sense that there's
networks of information being
processed even before you think,
so it's called thought before thought.
What is that about?
And you're somehow changing
Oh it's so simple.
Is it
really so simple?
Can I tell you how to
do it yet?
Yeah, yeah, just come on,
let's get to that part, and then
How bout just this,
can you imagine
just being peaceful, like in a place of peace.
Can you imagine a place of peace?
Yes.
Okay, what's it like?
Peaceful.
That's right, so mines a beach on Maui,
that's how I started this,
just go to a beach on Maui,
and then all of a sudden all the chaos
around me just goes away because I'm on the beach,
and I'm peaceful.
That's mine.
I'm normally in the sand, hearing the water
Right.
lying down, sun beating
And you can feel the sun, you smell the breeze,
and it's just wonderful isn't it?
Now imagine coming towards you on your
in your place of peace, on a beach or where ever,
yourself at your fullest potential,
because you know scientifically that
everything is driven by potential,
so every set of circumstances is that way,
and you're a set of circumstances so
what's the potential that drives you?
What does she look like?
Can you tell?
Can you sense what she feels like?
Mhmm.
Does she care about you?
Yes, will she talk with you?
Yes.
Well guess what you just did?
Now was that hard?
No.
She is now your source.
Anytime you wanna know anything
from the hyper spatial dimension
guess who will help you do it?
Because she cares about you,
she knows everything there,
because everything is connected,
and guess who it's connected through?
Guess who you're connected through?
From a scientific basis your full potential self
is the real you,
and in Stephen Hawking's latest book
the Universe in a Nut Shell 2001 he published it,
near the end of the book, the final conclusion
of his view of what's happening in the universe
he shows your full potential self
projecting itself onto this space time continuum.
Beautiful, simple,
elegant as they say in the world of physics.
Shows how the physics
confirms everything about that.
40 years ago I started introducing
people who had emotional problems
to their full potential selves.
Just beautiful.
Well this caught on.
It went past the prison systems
and past the mental hospitals and pretty soon
you're attracting super high in clients, right?
Bank of America, Toyota
All those people, and you know,
it was good.
Bowing was in total chaos
when Frank was in charge and doing all this stuff,
so we trained all the trainers,
and then they went to work
and trained all their people
and just within a few weeks, Bowing came back
into productivity.
It's like the coherence occurred.
It's like somebody blew a kind of tuning
fork for the choir, and suddenly everybody got it,
and they just went back to work.
It's like a company so big that it
was unmanageable.
Right.
And all of a sudden it became manageable.
Now how does that work?
It seems like magic,
but it is not because companies have an information system
we call the being of system synergy, its called the boss.
B-O-S-S, being of system synergy,
and just is a name for something that occurs
naturally in every system.
And you
So you can talk to the bosses is what I'm saying,
and you can communicate and so
can everybody else,
and pretty soon, it's like the
San Diego Newspaper had an advertisement
for an executive.
They said we want an executive that's capable
of connecting with the entity that's running this company,
and then disseminating that information
to everybody in the company,
and we'll pay a quarter of a million dollars a year,
if you can do that.
That was their advertisement.
I thought that was pretty
in tune
You answered the ad.
No, no
(laughter)
I was not looking for that kind of job,
but I could teach them how to do it.
Yes, yes
So then we got into all this stuff
about what's the biggest problem we've
got in the world?
Lack of peace.
It was the middle of the 80s at
this time
Thats right.
And that was the Cold War,
so I said to my full potential self,
why don't we just,
we're spending 350 billion dollars a year
on this war.
Could we do anything about that?
And my full potential chuckled and said okay.
Is that what you want?
Yes, do something about that one,
and two days later I got a call from Barbara Marx Hubbard.
Barbara Marx Hubbard is a friend of mine.
We've done a lot of speaking in the same places and things,
and Barbara said I'm part of the Soviet American Dialogues
for peace and Rama Vernon has arranged for
a major commitment from the military of the Soviet Union.
And we're talking brass that's
pretty high up there.
These were the leaders
This is the leaders of the Soviet military
to change from a peace room,
I mean from a war room to a peace room mentality.
Now that's a challenge.
She said, we don't have a clue what to do Vernon.
And I said well I think I can handle it.
I think I know exactly what to do,
because I did.
So this launched you on an entirely
new path as you headed to Russia,
and you had this incredible meeting
with the top brass, the elite
of the Russian military during the days of the Cold War,
and sitting at a table across from them
in essence at attention.
Well they were at attention.
They were.
What happened?
It's an incredible story.
Please tell us what happened from
that point on.
It really changed the course of events.
I have to go back a little bit to explain
how come I knew, because as soon
as I made this commitment to do something about it
people started showing up at my seminars
that were Russian.
Oh, interesting, okay.
And then the first man who I could identify
as Russian jumped up in the middle
of what I was saying
and came up to the front of the room,
threw me against the wall, put his arm against
my throat and then was gonna punch me out,
and he's screaming at the top of his lungs in Russian,
and I didn't understand Russian,
so I just used my processes, just went to my place of peace,
called up my full potential self,
and then just said okay.
And just stopped him right there.
I looked at him with love and just total presence
and said, okay.
What is it?
Then he realized what he was doing,
so then he switched into Russian
and we had a quite a conversation,
and he still held me for awhile,
and then I realized.
This man thinks entirely different than I think.
And I'm going, how do Russians think?
It was a challenge.
All these Russians starting coming,
and six months later I got it.
I knew then how they thought.
All of that had started before Barbara,
and no sooner did I get it, that's when Barbara called me,
and so then I knew that I probably could help,
because I knew what needed to be done
with a Russian kind of thinking.
When the general, they were all in attention
sitting like stern, no eyes to either side
or anything, just straight ahead.
We came in.
No hellos, anything, just rigid, stern,
and just totally attention while you're sitting,
and all their hats were level.
They were in full uniform,
so much brass.
It was amazing,
a real presentation of power.
Then the man across from me,
exactly on time got up,
and there was just four of us,
Barbara and I and then
a couple of ministers who
woo!
And so this guy gets up and he looks at us
just like with total disgust,
and then he takes both of his fists
and he slams them on the table
and then he screams,
war is inevitable!
He does it in Russian so the translators
translating, and I'm looking over,
and these people next to me, including Barbara
were going
Not the way they expected the meeting to begin.
They're just like at this point,
they're no good because they're already into
what I call an event risen.
They're in defense and surprise,
so I just did my little process
that I used with my Russian friends,
switched into being Russian,
because you have to know your enemy, as
some famous people have said, and become
your enemy before you can deal with your enemy,
and these weren't my enemies,
but these were people who thought they were.
I stood up and I just looked
at them with just total disdain,
every one of them.
There were about 17 of them.
I just took my time and looked at every one of them,
and then I took both my fists,
and I pounded harder than he did,
and I repeated it more often,
and I screamed louder than him
war is not inevitable!
What is inevitable sir,
and I pointed right into his face
is that life potential will unfold itself,
and your moral and ethical responsibilities sir
is to help yourself, your comrades,
your families, your country,
and your entire nation to become part
of the family of nations to help
that life potential unfold, sir!
And I sat down.
None of that was prepared,
but it was the thing.
I would have loved to have been there.
That needed to be said.
You know how when you sit down and you kind of sit,
when I looked up his head,
all the hats had tilted.
That's the first thing my peripheral vision showed me,
and his head was down on the table about
this far away from it, looking up
at me inside my eyes to see who was in there,
because nobody had ever addressed them
in the way I had,
and I looked at him and I smiled, and I winked.
Santa Claus
And he burst out laughing,
and then everybody else of course laughed,
because he was the main guy,
and so then they all laughed,
and he says, ah yes, and he says this in english now.
Ah yes, but how does one unfold that potential.
I said, now we can begin to discuss this,
and we went through a discussion that was
fantastic about how the war mentality
has no solutions,
and how if you get into a peace mind,
it's the mind of solutions for unfolding potential,
and these are the processes.
He was so impressed, and so was I with all of them
that what we did is he became my friend,
and then he guided me through all kinds of things in Russia.
He introduced me to the space agency.
He introduced me to the Academies.
Academy of Sciences
The Academy of Sciences.
They took their elite academy,
which is their highest one
where all the heads of all their other academies meet.
It's called the academy of natural science,
and they made a special academy inside of that academy
for the academy of holodynamics.
Incredible.
And one day he looked at me and said,
I believe that all the other academies.
I shouldn't maybe talk about this,
all the other academies will be absorbed
into the academy of holodynamics,
because it is the academy of the whole dynamic,
and it is what's needed in Russia
more than anything else is the integration
of our knowledge.
And this work spread through out
the country.
What happened then is he assigned me to
work with different ministries,
and so I worked with about 14 ministries.
Intensive meetings, day after day,
and night after night,
and into the middle of the night,
and sometimes in the middle of the night
they'd come and get me
and take me to
have this meetings, and it went on and on and on
like this for months,
and in fact for about eight years or so,
and the academicians were so taken by all the
information we were bringing them
that they said, well we wanna
begin to sponsor certain conferences on this.
We had international conferences on holodynamics
for about six years,
and every year we'd get together and
one year the academicians brought all the children
with all their art.
They have this traveling art show of 400 children
who travel all over the country
and show their art,
and you can't ever buy this art, because
it's the treasure of Russia,
but they gave me my most favorite picture of all of it.
How sweet.
How incredible.
What an impact you had on an entire nation,
and not only that, it wasn't just governmental
levels.
You helped through this training.
I was gonna tell you how that works.
We got with the ministry of social problems.
Yes, right, that's what I was going
to go into next,
and they said, well this is unsolvable.
We cannot solve our problems,
and I said really?
To me that's an invitation, an unsolvable problem.
We looked at what had caused it,
and we got back down.
It took about two weeks to do this,
but we got back down into the
seven arenas of alienation,
and the original party had said you must
alienate the masses, alienate them from information,
that's why so many telephones
didn't work.
No telephone books or anything like that,
and then you must alienate them from decision-making,
and you must alienate them from private
property, and from private interest,
and it goes on and on like this.
There were seven of these major arenas
of alienation, and their implemented so that all of the
decisions must be made from a central place.
so you look at the social system of Russia,
and you can see how a farmer could not
go out to farm unless Moscow
said it's the day to farm.
Then you go out, and if it's raining
in your area, you take your tractor out
and you get stuck,
and then you come back in
and you have three and a half tractors,
because if it gets stuck,
by the time you get back and you get the other one out,
and you get it out and it gets stuck,
by the time you get the third one out
maybe the rain has stopped.
Anyway, they had this formula.
I'm telling you what they told me.
This is how their
It's amazing
Russian farmers explained it on the communes,
and they go on like this with
food would have to be taken from 2,000 miles away,
shipped into Moscow, and then shipped back
and no refrigeration.
Over half of their food was spoiling,
and on and on the problems went.
The biggest problem they said
was the fact that 75% of their working
force had stopped working.
That's a problem.
They were all on the dole system,
so everybody got paid the same amount.
Well when you're not working,
the country is going broke.
They said, can you fix that?
I said, absolutely, here's how you do it,
because I knew how to do it.
All you have to do is teach people
that the key to their unfolding is the unfolding
of their own potential.
Information organizes from smallness to bigness,
what they call from micro to macro.
You look at that and you say okay,
well if information organizes from micro to macro,
why don't we teach individuals how
to unfold their own potential,
and then they will teach the ones around them.
We began a seminar process throughout Russia.
We did Unfolding Potential.
And you had everything from people
not only getting back into the workforce,
but being able to self heal from cancer,
and as I understand even cases of AIDS
and other ailments, physical ailments,
not just societal ailments.
The amazing thing is that you cannot have a disease
unless there's an information field
inside of you that creates the growing of the disease.
When you get into the information field,
it's made of specific information patterns.
I call them holodines,
and so holodines are causal patterns of their
information systems
that cause things to happen.
You look it at, well where are the holodines,
and then you get into all the biology
and the physics and the mathematics
and so forth, and we discovered well,
holodines are inside your microtubules
And that's where Stuart Hameroffs work
comes in.
Right, and that's where Roger Penrose,
and that's where the science of consciousness.
They've caught onto that in the last ten years or so,
and we built our first
synthetic, what do you call it, virtual
microtule back in the academy of holodynamics
back in 1996 I think it was.
You were ahead of the game again
on that one.
I don't know.
I found out about it.
You got a
I found out about microtubles
You gotta admit that much.
Your full potential self is a leader.
Well, I don't know.
What I am is a very curious being,
and I love to see how you find solutions.
It's like if there's some problem that can't be solved,
then I'm just automatically drawn to it,
because it's such an invitation.
We have a big problem going right now.
The subject of terrorism,
and it's my understanding that you're going
to be going to the Middle East soon,
and can you talk about this a little bit?
This dynamic and what you're going to do.
I've been to the Middle East a couple times already,
because back in the 90s Roma Vernon
saw what we did in Russia,
because we had programs running in over 100 cities,
and thousands and we
certified over 600 teachers to teach,
and they went out,
and it's just like they developed these
holodynamic centers and they would teach
everybody, and the leaders and so forth,
and it just made a shift and a couple of years later
communism was illegal.
It's like nobody could dominate them anymore.
They didn't need dictatorship.
They found out they had a potential
It is very exciting.
But terrorism is even simpler.
Care to share anymore.
Took us eight and a half years to work our way
through a reconstruction of the Soviet Empire,
but terrorism is a little more evasive,
but it's simpler.
How can I tell you this?
I know you can't give too much away about it, but
Yeah.
Will you be meeting people in key positions?
Oh, yes, and I always do,
but see the therapist in Israel,
the Israeli Jewish therapist have invited me there,
because when you deal with any kind of dynamic
it doesn't matter which end of the pole
you deal with.
It's all the same pole.
The war between the Russians
and the Americans was a pole,
and the Americans on one side
and the Russians on the other.
It's the same in the war against the Israelis
and the Palestinians.
They're the same pole.
They come from the same family tree.
It like amazing thing.
You'll watch this going how did this all happen?
And you can trace it back in a panoramic view
of the history, and so forth.
You can see where
the wars all start.
Cultural and family
dynamics.
Cultural and family dynamics,
all the holodines involved,
and then you realized the solution is so simple.
We had this meeting in Israel, because Rama Vernon
and Barbara Marsh Harwood were doing
Israeli Palestinian dialogues for peace,
just like they did the Russian ones,
Russian American ones.
We got over there and
the first day there we traveled on
this little blue bus and visited all the places
that are known.
It was really boring for me frankly,
but because we had to do it so quickly
and so forth,
and there were all these graffitis on the walls
that have been black painted over,
and I said to the driver, what are those?
And the driver is Arabic, and said those
are the tears of Allah.
Those are the signs of the mourning that Allah is doing
for his people.
I didn't know what that meant,
but anyway we kept going, and they let us off
on one side of the old city.
I'm going through the old city,
and two cars and I got so interested
in all this stuff,
the group got kind of ahead of me,
and we're not supposed to leave by the way.
You're not supposed to ever talk to Arabs.
It's an 11 o'clock curfew and you're shot
after 11 o'clock without any questions.
It's like real war rules,
and I got separated, because these two
cars tried to pass and there wasn't enough room
for me so I stepped in the shop.
While the cars are passing I turned around and looked.
It's as big as Mervin's.
It's a huge store just with a little door,
and it's all old stuff.
Jars eight feet tall,
a big old well in there,
and clothing and jewels, just all kinds of ancient stuff.
Some of it 4,000 years old.
It's a real authentic shop.
I forgot all about the rest of the people.
You were going antique shopping now.
This guy comes up to me and he says,
and he says how can I help you?
And I said well you speak good English,
and then his brother comes up and says,
yeah, we got a shop in LA.
They're Americans, but they're Arabs,
and I said well where'd you learn English,
and they said well,
the one looked at the other and said we learned
it in prison.
When were you in prison?
He says since I was five,
and the other guy says since I was six.
I said you learned it in prison?
How do you feel about,
I broke the second rule you never
talk to with Arabs,
I said well how do you feel about the Israeli occupation?
They both at one time raised their hands like this
we hate it!
And then I knew it was a holodine,
and it's a collective one,
so it's part of the collective consciousness.
I said what color is it?
They looked at me and said, what?
I said what color is the hate?
I went into the holographic dimension,
and they both looked down at this thing
on the floor, and they said,
it's a great beast,
and it's black, and then they started to shake,
and then they both dropped down
behind the counter, and the counter shook.
They were so frightened it took me about 45 minutes
to an hour just to get them calmed down
enough so I could talk with them,
but I immediately went down and sat
right beside them and took hold of both of them.
I stated my place of peace, and they were just
and finally they came out, and they said,
it's the great beast.
We cannot look upon the beast.
We'll lose our souls if we look upon the beast,
and they meant it.
Now these two guys
Cultural programming
And they're what you call terrorist now.
These are guys since five and six years of age,
and you think hmm.
Okay, so how can we approach a great
beast that they cannot look upon,
and it was so simple.
It took us about an hour and a half to figure out,
because we tried and that and whatever.
Anyway we got down to how to Allah feel
about the great beast?
Oh well Allah loves everything.
How can Allah love the great beast?
I don't know.
Do you think if you wrapped yourself in the
love of Allah and looked through the eyes of Allah
you might be able to discover what is
lovable about the great beast?
Hmm, and they thought about that.
They're pretty adventurous guys,
so they decided to do that.
Wrapped themselves in the love Allah,
looked through the eyes,
they peak up over the counter, they look back
down at that piece of floor,
and then they said,
Allah loves it.
Ask it what it wants.
What do you want?
And then they both went
(gasp)
And they they dropped back down again,
and it took me another 30 40 minutes,
got them back out then and said
what does it want?
It wants to consume us.
Oh, great, okay great,
and what'll happen if it consumes you?
We don't know.
Ask again.
Okay, what else do you want?
We wanna consume all of Palestine.
Ahhh,
they're scared again for only a few more minutes this time
kind of wore down a little,
and then finally they said, what else?
And the beast says we wanna consume Israel.
They look at each other and say Israel,
how come it wants to consume,
me, you, Palestine, yeah,
but what about Israel.
Ask it!
What else?
We wanna consume all life,
and I said well, if it consumes all life
what happens?
I'm still in this holographic dimension right?
Says he gets peace.
So what this thing really wants is peace.
It wants peace, peace,
yeah, because then it wouldn't have to have
any conflict because life causes conflictry.
Do you think this thing is really very mature?
Mature?
What do you mean?
So we had this talk about what maturity is
and how come it's different,
and maybe there's another way that it could do this,
it could get peace, so then I said to them,
what does peace look like?
Oh, that's easy.
First they had a little bit of trouble,
but they finally got it.
Then they said so what would it be like if you
were in that peace?
A complete change comes over these guys.
They get up and they start dancing around and say,
this is great.
I say, now introduce the beast to the peace.
It's the peace it's always wanted.
Why not just introduce it in your own self first?
You're gonna organize this from smallness
to bigness.
They did it, and they became so celebrated,
because the beast transformed itself into their peace,
which they called the river of life.
It's a flowing river of endless love and life,
and they started to prophesy,
and they were up dancing around
the room prophesying things like,
oh, every foot that has stepped upon this land
was brought by God to be here.
I'm going, these are these Palestinian terrorists,
and Palestinians brought a witness
to the nations of the all powerful unity
of everything and everyone.
I never told them any of this,
and they're coming out with all these amazing things
that you could have written down,
and they would have been holy books
from then on.
Amazing stuff out of these two terrorists, right?
Then one of them stopped and said,
who are you?
Santa Claus!
I said, no, my names Vernon.
Vernon!
Vernon, he says.
That's a terrible name.
It's not Arabic, come with us.
They took me back to this well,
and they said this is the well of Virage.
Should not be a well here so Virage has
been here 6,000 years.
My family has been in this,
this part of the store for 6,000 years.
He says, so anything that has a hidden
there's not supposed to be any water here,
shouldn't be any water here.
Has hidden water,
you don't know where it comes from,
or a hidden solution, you didn't know what it was,
or a hidden door is called virage
in Arabic.
They said we want to give you a new name.
They dressed me up in an Arabic costume
with a little plaid turban on me,
gave me a staff and named me Virage,
and this will be your Arab name,
because you give solutions where none are evident,
and then my adventures began,
because it was after 11 o'clock.
Uh oh, and I was going to say,
meanwhile back at the ranch they must have
wondered what in the heck happened to you.
They did not have a clue where I was,
and they were worried,
and everything, and so now
the Israelis are in war mode and it's after 11,
and they said to me, well where are you staying,
and I said, I don't know.
I couldn't remember,
because I got there so late that I forgot
it was early the next morning.
I hadn't even looked at,
but I had to glance back and notice it
was some kind of castle hotel,
and they said, oh we know that one,
and I said yeah, but how are you
gonna get me there?
Oh, don't worry we know how to do this.
Here's my first night,
my second night actually in Israel,
and we're going down the streets,
and there one guys going ahead of the others,
making sure we're all safe here,
goes ahead and says, okay, come on.
I made it all the way through the old city,
all the way into the lighted area,
all the way across the street into the hotel.
They walked me right to my door,
and they said,
we would like to do this again
tomorrow night at 11.
We have something we think you need to do.
I said okay.
Where were your handlers at this point?
I never had any.
Just teasing.
Anyway, so they got me the next morning.
We got on the little blue bus again,
and we're going all over,
and I haven't told anybody, because
I don't want really anybody to know what I'm doing
with these guys.
The next night, 11 o'clock,
knock on my door.
11 o'clock.
Come on, rog, let's go.
Sneak out, go in this little old car
down to the part of the Arab system that's
part of the city is hardly lit,
because the Jewish people don't
let the Arab people have electricity much,
so there's very little electricity,
took me to house that had some,
and brought me inside,
and here's a woman and seven children,
and the oldest is about 14,
and she's very frightened and so are the children
and my two firage brothers.
I call them firage just means
all brothers of the same family.
They said, where's Hommad?
My mother says he's coming.
And so in walks this boy.
He looks like a high school football player.
He's big and he's husky,
robust, and he walks with one foot
on his ankle and both his hands are crunched up
like this and held against his chest like this,
but he's very intelligent,
and my firage brother says, the oldest one says,
this man is one of the pathological terrorists.
He cannot stop killing Israelis,
and he's now a danger to himself and
to his people.
Can you help him?
Here I am, in the middle of the night,
in the middle of the Arab territory,
and helping a young man
whose obviously had some real trouble.
They explained his story.
The Israelis killed his father,
and they killed him for no reason,
but were not protected by law
so there was nothing that could be done.
This young man decided he was gonna do nothing
but kill Israelis.
They caught him.
They took him into the desert, and they put him in a place
too small to stand up and too small to sit down
in the middle of the desert,
and they left him for five days and five nights,
but first they broke his leg,
and they broke all of his fingers,
and they said that the young man showed
me how he can bend all of his fingers back
and touch his wrist, so it was really still broken,
and they left him there,
and then they came back and tortured him some more,
and I said so how did he feel?
They said, they talked to him in Arabic,
and they said he is totally filled
with hate.
Then I said what color is it?
The young virage brother says oh, okay,
and he sits Homid down and he sits
right next to him, face to face,
grabs him by the head, pulls his head over
and shouts, Homid, pay attention
in Arabic,
and Homid kinda wakes up to this,
and just paying attention,
and then he looks up at me and says,
okay, now what?
Ask him the color.
He says okay.
Talk, talk, and then he says, it's black.
How big is it?
Talk, talk, talk, and he says,
oh it's bigger than the world.
It's bigger than the solar system.
It's as big as the galaxy .
I smiled and said, tell Homid
that's really very good.
Homid hears that and looks up at me,
and says, what?
Because his love is bigger than
his holodine.
The young brother gets it,
and then he starts furiously talking to Homid,
back and forth and back and forth and back and forth,
and all of a sudden Homid says, oh.
Oh, and as soon as he did that
his mother and all his brothers and sisters
started crying.
They knew he got it.
And I knew too.
It was so exciting.
I cannot tell you how simple it is
to change a pathological terrorist into
the most loving human being you could ever imagine,
because when Homid got it, we made the transformation
so that the galaxy sized blackness
became a bigger than that love,
so his love was so big,
and he glowed with it,
and his mother.
His brothers and sisters all gathered around him,
they all hugged him and everything,
and then he came over to give me a hug,
and I looked at him and took his hands,
and I said so what do you wanna do with these hands?
Do you wanna heal them?
And he says, oh no.
These are my witness
to all the people who think they are my enemy,
of my unconditional love for my enemies.
Unbelievable.
Sorry it's true.
And this came through purely.
Purely, no coaching.
Just a pure state of transformation.
By the way in the middle of that whole process
we were bisceiged by
truckloads of young men who came and slammed the doors
and started shouting and screaming
out in the front,
and Homid and my two firage brothers went out
and they handled them.
The mother finally went out and also helped,
but took a half an hour.
Right in the middle of the transformation
the opposition came to find out
what was going on, because
you can sense it in the entire field,
because we are connected,
and anybody whose a terrorist is me,
and anybody whose an anti terrorist
is me, because we're all connected,
but you have to get into another
dimension of reality to understand that.
What we teach is,
what's reality
and what are these dimensions?
And what happens when you get in them?
And how do you use that additional
awareness of reality in order to solve problems?
Every problem is caused by it's solution,
and the reason that every problem
is cased by it's solution is because of the covenant.
We know from science that everything
is made of little spinners of information,
that they come from hyperspace,
that even when the DNA is coated and created,
it's created by spinners from hyperspace.
They come and create the little places
where the protein strings grow,
and then bridge,
they do that in every case where
there's a bridge,
so you can see that hyperspace is actually
creating your DNA.
Anything you inherit and anything
you have modeled for you,
and anything that goes on in your life,
past, present, or future, is all apart of
a covenant, and what is the covenant?
It's our agreement.
We're holographic beings, and we've
agreed that things will look the way they do,
and we'll experience them the way we do
so that we can have a vacation from knowing,
a vacation from happiness,
a vacation from loving one another
and come to a place where there is no love
and there is no happiness,
and there's not any knowledge,
and everybody is living in aggression
and downdraft dynamics so that we
can solve it all.
It's like we wrote our own scripts.
If you got a really, really, really, really tough
problem, congratulations it means you
have a really, really, really good solution,
and to me that's reality,
and it proves itself true.
I'm the kind of guy that goes out and says
that couldn't be true in this case.
You can't wipe out the drug problem.
Yeah, you can,
and we know how to do it.
You can't wipe out disease.
Oh yeah?
You can cure any disease.
Vernon, you're an unbelievable human being.
Thank you so much for taking the time.
I'm sorry I'm unbelievable,
but if you get to know it, it's not
The nice thing is it is believable.
Oh, good.
Thank you so much for your time.
Thanks, thanks for having me.
It's wonderful.
For more informaiton on this incredible
man's work, check out his website.
He has devoted the better part of the next year
to teaching workshops around the world
and has a number of books ready to go into print.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(relaxing music)